{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The unnormalized design had repeated data listed within the table. F. Scott Fitzgerald has written two books, \'93The Great Gatsby\'94 and \'93Tender Is the Night\'94, so he\'92s listed twice in this table. I created three tables and a junction table to reach 3NF. The first table is the Authors table, which contains the id (the primary key), the name, and the email of each author. The second table is the Books table. The Books table contains the id (primary key), the title, the isbn, and publication_year of each book as well as the author_id (foreign key). The Categories table is the third table, and it includes the id (primary key) and the name of each category. The junction table is labeled Book_Categories and contains the id from the Books table (labeled book_id in this specific table and the id from the Categories table (labeled category_id in this table). \
The many-to-many relationships are needed in the join table since multiple books can be listed under more than one category. For instance, \'93The Great Gatsby\'94 and \'93Tender Is the Night\'94 are listed under the \'93Classic\'94 category, while the book \'931984\'94 is listed in both the \'93Dystopian\'94 and \'93Fiction\'94 categories. }